oh hey have i mentioned i'm vegan
how could i think that i was so right on
something
i thought that i was so so right
and then i turned out to be so so
catastrophically wrong
have you heard of our lord and savior
veganism
hey what's up my no meat brother that's
that's cool
a lot of my political goals boil down to
trying to make society better
for humans but why does it need to stop
at humans
when in reality i want to make the world
better for all sentient life
it's another reason why and yes
controversial opinion alert
i consider myself pro-life what this
means is that i think that abortion is
morally wrong
and that's because the fetus has
potential to gain sentience
and arguments can be made that the fetus
has sentience by
six weeks but controversial opinion
again
i don't think that abortion should be
made illegal and i don't think roe v
wade should be overturned
overall this doesn't seem to work in
reducing abortion and multiple studies
have shown that when
states try and ban abortion we don't
really see
any decrease in abortion rates so i want
to see less abortion
by providing better health care access
to contraceptives
and overall better sex education but
because i consider myself to be pro-life
because i would defend the right to
light of the fetus
because of its potential to be sentient
or because
it already has sentience then it only
logically follows that i should be
consistent in my beliefs
and extend that to all sentient life is
there anything else that i could be
wrong about that i once thought that i
was so right about
that maybe now i'm wrong about
abortion in the year 2019 it's the
debate
we didn't want to have in 1919 or 1959
so we're still having it now
and look it up all around the world
there are countries where abortion still
remains in a legal gray area where it's
still an unresolved question
i was raised in canada i was taught
again and again that somehow canadians
were morally superior to americans
because we'd legalized abortion whereas
americans had not
and that is a lie canada the united
kingdom's many countries around the
world
the debate rages on precisely because we
never have done what the people of
ireland did
we never made the commitment to
democratically deciding the issue
through a referendum and once you commit
to deciding the issue through a
referendum
by the same token you're going to commit
to through public education
engaging with people caring about their
beliefs their perceptions their
misconceptions
and trying to solve the problem at that
level really reaching out to and
engaging with the people
who have the passionate conviction that
abortion
is morally equivalent to murder people
who really believe
that mothers should go to prison as
criminals
if they decide to have an abortion now i
understand that perspective
i understand it because it's not
entirely false
it's clinging to concepts that are
true but misleading and those are
important
misconceptions to try to counter in the
public
and in this case even though i feel the
left wing
basically has come to the correct
conclusions they've come to the correct
conclusions
through reasoning that is completely
false
dishonest and internally incoherent
okay so let's let's let's deal with that
first the argument i've heard
just today from the young turks
left-wing news source
you will have heard this from
left-wingers your whole lives probably
the argument i've heard from the left
wing today
is that abortion is simply a medical
operation
between a woman and her doctor and that
therefore the government should have no
role in it whatsoever
this is laughably outrageously
ridiculously wrong and yet of course if
you look at it as just a single stage
of analysis if you look at it as an
isolated fact
there's a sense in which it's
self-evidently true yes
abortion is a surgical procedure
but that's not what we were debating was
it
okay yes having your tonsils removed is
a surgical procedure
yes having breast implants breast
augmentation is a surgical procedure
does that mean that there's absolutely
no rule for government law legislation
or public policy on these things
does that mean that if breast implants
were illegal that you would object
on the same grounds that uh this is a
violation of women's rights today the
young turks
today they claim that this is morally
the same as rape
because it's interfering with what a
woman wants to do with her body
they actually made that claim so you
know the fact that
some breast implants are legal and some
are illegal uh
more famously that some forms of bum
enlargement this kind of surgery
are legal and others are illegal that's
in the news a lot because some people
got those procedures and some people
died you know the fact that those
decisions are made
in the public interest for public
welfare by the government the fact that
actually there are myriad laws
even gov governing whether or not you
can have your tonsils removed this is
this is already
one thing that's incoherent and
dishonest even if we were to accept the
premise
that there was no more ethical
significance
to an abortion than there is to having
your tonsils removed
we would still have a question of
responsible public education public
policy
of trying to reduce the number of people
having their tonsils removed surgically
every year we still say well look
what is it is it a strep throat epidemic
is it lack of hygiene is it food
standards
why is it that so many people are going
to hospitals having their toss removed
is there is there a misconception that
you'll be a better singer if you have
your tonsils removed
you have to do public education and tell
people stop getting what is it we have
to do step by step so we have a we have
a society
where there were as few tonsils being
removed as possible where in fact the
ideal number of tonsillectomies of
tonsil removing surgeries
the ideal number is actually zero and
we're never going to achieve that
but let's admit this is something that's
bad and wrong and a problem and that
we're engaged in public policy training
laws
that is the position that is unthinkable
to
the left wing and the mainstream left
the mainstream center left
because they've been avoiding the real
ethical
cultural and even legal problems raised
by
by abortion by trying to insist one that
it's simply a type of surgery and then
two
any legislation interfering with it is
violating a woman's
right to just privately decide this with
their doctor and the shame of it is
as i say the left wing has basically
come to the right conclusion
that yeah the simplest solution this
problem is to legalize abortion
and try to have public education
campaigns making uh birth control
more available indeed even making
adoption
more available making alternatives more
available to try to minimize
the number of abortions in society but
on the other hand the conservatives and
the right wing
are clinging to the simple notion that
abortion
is a form of infanticide
and that also regarded in isolation
is indeed a fact i think every society
in the history of the world has had one
form
of socially sanctioned legally
acceptable infanticide
or another and in our society here and
now
when children are born with very serious
mental and physical disabilities
i think we should have infanticide
permitted
for some number of months within some
limits for some conditions
even after the birth of the child it's
tremendously scary and saddening thing
to take responsibility for
but again you can confront people with
this moral question
well if you really believe that this is
murder
if you really believe that under any
circumstances having an abortion under
any circumstances committing infanticide
is murder
who is going to raise those children is
it you
and if not you then who
in the year 2019 the legality of
abortion
is a tremendously simple issue made
complex and convoluted
by the dishonesty of people on both
sides of the debate
the dishonesty i feel stems from a
fundamental discomfort
with democracy itself very few people
on the left or right are really
interested in democracy
democracy in the sense handed down to us
from ancient athens
democracy in the sense practiced by the
people of ireland
when they had a vote on the issue when
they had a referendum when they
determined to direct democracy
whether abortion should be legal or
illegal
that is ultimately the decision that we
all have to make
society by society state by state
whatever the case may be
and if we make the decision
democratically then we all have to be
tremendously concerned
about public education about the level
of enlightenment and understanding
that the general public has as is
applied to this issue
because the public lacks a certain level
of education or enlightenment on the
issue
that it's going to have terrible
consequences for us all
that's one of the fundamental virtues of
democracy as opposed to an elitist
despotism
if you live in an elitist despotism you
can just decide well
this is the right answer a small number
of people in power
make that decision and then the rest of
us live with the consequences
and it doesn't matter what percentage of
the general public fail to understand it
have an ethical
or other objection to the idea
today in the united states of america
only 18 percent of people
take the view that under absolutely no
circumstances
should abortion be legal should abortion
be permitted
those people matter those people matter
too
if you sincerely care about democracy
about the future of the democracy in
your country
you should care about reaching out to
and educating those people
engaging with them and getting them to
think beyond just a single stage of
analysis
now the term i just used may seem
unfamiliar
but it's really easy to understand i'm
vegan
we have similar and similarly flawed
debates about veganism all the time
uh matt dillahunty recently said that he
saw absolutely nothing wrong
morally with drinking cow's milk and he
said this because
uh drinking the milk itself doesn't kill
a cow
all right that may be true but that's
looking at only
a single stage of the process that's not
doing a full life cycle analysis
it's not even doing a 10-year analysis
okay so if you have a society
where one billion people drink one
billion liters of milk every day
why don't we go through an analysis of
what it takes to produce that milk
what it takes to have cows giving birth
to and maintaining the necessary number
of cattle
what those cows eat and the sewage
they're going to generate and what
happens to that sewage because it
doesn't go into the sewage system
it pollutes the rivers and lakes and
oceans and so on and so forth
you look at a cycle of suffering that's
being perpetuated by
forcibly inseminating cattle keeping
them in confinement et cetera et cetera
now it's very obvious it's very obvious
and yet someone a so-called philosopher
a leader of political opinion like matt
dillahunty he spent
decades of his life believing in this
simplified
single stage of analysis that in a sense
is true the problem isn't that it's
false the problem is
it's true but misleading
all right now i think the most sincere
position
adopted by the right-wing conservatives
in this which is again
in isolation true is that they will say
abortion is an act of infanticide
and that is true but that is only a
single stage of analysis
i knew one young man who was
um what we call a crack baby his mother
used cocaine during the pregnancy in
fact i met him in canada i was on his
living can as a kid
his family um ran away from the city
they were living the united states
something like chicago i forget to try
to get away from the drug scene they
were trying to quit
uh when she found out she was pregnant
she was trying to quit
ran away to a new city escape the circle
of friends and familiar dealers you can
imagine there's a
psychological as well as practical
element to that
and um he had brain damage and physical
damage from his mother's drug use and he
said you know he was haunted by this
idea that he was himself born to be a
drug addict
you know to some extent that's
scientific and to some extent i think
that's a bit of a folk tale
so and so forth um he's got to live with
the consequence of that for the the rest
of his life
and today these things are a lot easier
to put together
partly just due to the technology of
youtube you can put together
case studies and testimonials and real
examples and you can share them with the
public educate the public
about the real consequence of these
things in the past lawyers had to go
around and find people
who are willing to testify in front of
congress or in front of parliament
depending what country
and then newspaper writers would report
on that and then people would just be
looking at the dry
text of this in the newspaper not seeing
the physical reality of what it is to
raise a kid
who's brain damaged or disabled due to
the the drug addiction the mother and
that guy i met he was he was one of the
lucky ones you know he you know
he had use of of all of his uh arms and
legs and so on he was an interesting guy
he was a nice guy
but you can imagine that was a chilling
and very interesting influence for me in
my life
meeting someone who's whose whole life
was shaped by the drug addiction of his
of his parents um
that's not something that is maybe going
to happen
that's something that is inevitably
going to happen
the united states has an epidemic of
drug addiction
at the moment i think it's extraordinary
the level of addiction to painkillers to
opiates
and there are women who are going to get
pregnant
and are going to continue using opiates
continues in cocaine continue using
heroin
continue drinking alcohol and so on
during the pregnancy
and a lot of those women currently have
abortions
if you make abortion illegal because of
this
single stage of analysis the isolated
principle
that abortion itself is an act of
infanticide
let me ask you do you
want to raise those children
do you want to take responsibility for
raising the child of a drug addict
and let's say again not too
hypothetically the drug addict abandons
that child to be a ward of the state to
be left in an orphanage
if not you then who
i have a daughter my daughter is six
years old
um we gave birth to the daughter of my
daughter in a hospital
and i've mentioned this before the ward
we were in
basically was the healthy babies award
but still you're only there
you know if you really have no problems
you leave you leave five minutes after
you give birth
so a lot of people had some mild health
problems i
because we were vegan i had to go out
and buy food for my wife and carry it in
and i would come up the stairs
in the next ward next next section of
the hospital
and those are the families dealing with
really bad news
those are the families who had babies
where the heart was
outside the body at the time of birth
born with a hole in their heart
you know hole in their spine babies that
were going through
you know surgery and guess what
some of those families some of them knew
the baby had a serious malformation
before it was born
some of them had the option to abort
and if you say but abortion is
infanticide
i would say back that's true
but that's only a single stage of
analysis
and in the whole history of the world
every society every society i know of
has had formally or informally
some capacity for socially sanctioned
for acceptable
for legal infanticide which could indeed
include situations like a child
being born with its heart outside of its
chest
these kinds of very serious physical and
mental deformities
now i would not merely vote
to make abortion legal so i i do think
abortion
should be legal that's what i would vote
for i would vote
to make infanticide legal within certain
clearly stated limits
i think people can give birth to a child
and realize wow
this child is so physically impaired or
so mentally impaired
that you know and again very often
you're looking at
complex surgeries the moment after the
child is born to reconstruct its head
reconstruct its mouth reconstruct
its heart and so on and yes i do
think that responsible adults parents
it's another question who should make
the decision and so on
this needs to be legislated carefully
maybe for the first six months after a
child is born
there should be the option to euthanize
to to genuinely
commit infanticide to spare that child a
life
with those physical or mental
deformities
it's a decision i take very seriously
but taking those decisions seriously
is what democracy is all about as
tempting as it might be for me to just
drop the mic there
i think i should say a little bit more
about how morally incoherent the left
wing's position on this is
what i hear from the left just today i
was hearing it from the young turks
left of center podcast news show what i
hear from the left is the insistence
that the surgical operation itself is no
different
from a woman having her tonsils removed
single stage of analysis
and then they build on this premise the
idea
that any intervention by the state
whatsoever actually today
the young turks they they said that it
was rape they said it was morally
tantamount to rape
for the government to legislate anything
that would constrain what a woman
can or cannot do with their own body um
okay sorry you know there are laws that
govern having your tonsils removed
did you know that i can't just go in and
decide to have my tonsils removed
because i think it would look cool or
make me sing better there actually are
laws on that
there are laws very specifically about
what women can and can't do to their
bodies
some breast implants breast augmentation
some breast implants are legal
and some are illegal in the united
states most of the surgeries to make
your bum
bigger to make your bum are illegal and
you may have heard about this some women
fly to other countries
where they don't have that legislation
in place so yes there are always going
to be laws
governing what surgeries people can and
can't have under what circumstances
even when the surgeries do not have any
of these
ethical cultural or religious questions
attached to them i don't know of any
religions
that attach a special significance to
keeping your tonsils in your throat
i think it's an open question the
morality of breast augmentation this
topic for another video
um but yeah that debate isn't over there
are signs now that there are really
serious health consequences negative
health consequences from breast
augmentation
and probably that debate needs to be had
again probably needs to be voted on to
what extent
which surgeries are are permissible
which are not
here's the thing what the left wing is
refusing to do
is acknowledge even if we were just
talking
about removing your tonsils because of
tonsillitis
it would still be a morally positive
virtuous and pure position
to say that you aspire to have a society
in which the fewest people possible
get their tonsils removed to say hey you
know what
th this this operation it's it's bad
it's a bad thing in a perfect world
nobody would have to have the tonsils
removed
and we've got to look at all the
policies and procedures we can put in
place so that there are
circumstances that avert this whether as
few as possible
and so that there are alternatives all
right that
really is the morally responsible
attitude to take towards
abortion and nobody can do it because
nobody's willing to get past this single
stage of admitting
yes abortion is a form of infanticide
and therefore you know you know there
are all kinds of
alternatives there are alternatives that
include the child being given up for
adoption
there are alternatives that include
making contraception
as available as possible and the public
being as well informed as possible etc
etc
uh there's a whole series of policy
choices you can make
that are going to minimize the number of
accidental and unwanted pregnancies
and yeah you know some of them though
some of them are coercive um
you know again when you think about it
when you think about women who
you know may be legally insane maybe
mentally impaired
maybe drug addicts may be a combination
of all three
you can sometimes get you know one woman
like that is repeatedly getting pregnant
and repeatedly
having abortions there are tough
decisions and and legal questions they
say okay well at what point
do we start really legislating people
have to take responsibility
for their own uh reproduction
and when they fail to at what point you
say look we have to really incentivize
people
to take this responsibility and take it
seriously because we don't want to be a
society
with x billion abortions happening per
year
we want to be a society that a judicious
way through public policy is minimizing
the number of abortions okay now one of
the reasons why i'm so familiar with all
this
is that it's closely comparable to
discourse we have within veganism okay
if you come to the conclusion that
everyone should
adopt a vegan diet it's a good
conclusion but people come to that
conclusion
through incredibly flawed circuitous
and wrong courses of reasoning one of
the most common they say oh well
all life is sacred therefore they're
vegan
i don't believe that you know i'm a
nihilist i don't think any life is
sacred
human or animal but i'm vegan because
it's the right thing to do because i'm
interested in people taking
responsibility for the consequences of
their actions
and making the world a better place all
right legalizing
abortion which countries like canada
have not yet done
countries like the united kingdom
england have not yet done
society is carrying on a very
hypocritical way if you really believe
in democracy
you should press don't press for the
status quo
press for outright legalization right
now in the united states of america
you should be pressing for a referendum
on a constitutional amendment
to legalize abortion should do it
democratically you don't you don't want
supreme court justices making the
decision
stop and think why do you why do you
call a judge in court
you know my lord
[Laughter]
it's a court think about the meaning of
the word court this is a medieval
feudal aristocratic arrangement
this is not democracy you don't want
judges deciding this for you you want to
decide this democratically
and as soon as you commit to a
democratic solution this problem then
you're going to commit to public
education
lobbying involving people even the
backward people of arkansas
the people are most committed to making
abortion illegal you're going to
involve them in this discourse to
legalize abortion
um you have to understand that the
commitment
to legalizing abortion is not going to
be the end of the struggle
no more than the commitment to
legalizing abortion
would end adoption or would end drug
addiction
or end the myriad other social problems
of indeed
rape incest that intersect
with this issue okay you're not gonna
solve all of them with one law
and you're not gonna solve all them with
one stroke with a pen and there's gonna
be an
ongoing discourse about how we as a
society
can better educate and prepare people of
both genders
so that we have the fewest unwanted
pregnancies possible so that we have the
fewest abortions possible
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know you